DOC-425 part 6: Pindel, Pindel Annotation, SeSAMe Methylation Beta Estimation, Seurat - 10x Chromium, STAR - Counts, STAR 2-Pass Chimeric, STAR 2-Pass Genome, STAR 2-Pass Transcriptome, STAR-Fusion (#364)
NCI-GDC/gdc-docs: docs/Encyclopedia/pages/SeSAMe_Methylation_Beta_Estimation.md

# SeSAMe Methylation Beta Estimation

## Description ##

SeSAMe Methylation Beta Estimation is a workflow used in GDC methylation array harmonization.

## Overview ##

> SeSAMe Methylation Beta Estimation is the only pipeline used for methylation array harmonization at the GDC. Methylation array harmonization is performed with SeSAMe Methylation Beta Estimation using tumor and normal alignments and generates dna methylation data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SeSAMe Methylation Beta Estimation is used for methylation array harmonization at the GDC. Methylation array harmonization is performed with SeSAMe using raw tumor or normal methylation array files and generates beta values and masked intensities data, which removes potential genotype information.
```

Author: changed
